ODATA-1510 (#147)
oasis-tcs/odata-specs: odata-url-conventions/5 Query Options.md

::: example
Example ##ex: products ordered by a set of customers, where the set of
customers is passed as a JSON array containing the resource paths from
`$root` to each customer
```
http://host/service/ProductsOrderedBy(Customers=@c)?@c=[$root/Customers('ALFKI'),$root/Customers('BLAUS')]
```
:::

::: example

> Example ##ex: function call returning the average rating of a given employee by their peers (employees in the same department)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example ##ex: function call returning the average rating of a given employee by their peers (employees in department D1)
```
The second change seems to have overridden the first, here it is again.

```

> http://host/service/Employees('A1245')/self.AvgRating(RatedBy=@peers)?@peers=$root/Employees/$filter(Department eq $it/Department)

Author: What would `$it/Department` be? The resource path includes the function call whose result depends on the value of `@peers`.

Better choose a more direct example

Example copied from https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/odata/download.php/69589/odata-v4.01-errata01-os-part2-url-conventions.docx.

Reviewer: > What would the value of `$it/Department` be? The resource path includes the function call whose result depends on the value of `@peers`

The resource path to which `$it` refers is `$root/Employees` in this case, not `http://host/service/Employees('A1245')/self.AvgRating(RatedBy=@peers)`.

Author: According to https://docs.oasis-open.org/odata/odata/v4.01/os/part2-url-conventions/odata-v4.01-os-part2-url-conventions.html#sec_URLComponents the resource path is everything after the service root up to (and excluding) the first question mark or hash, or up to the end of the URL, that is `Employees('A1245')/self.AvgRating(RatedBy=@peers)`

Author: We could make it more complicated:
~~~
http://host/service/Employees('A1245')/self.AvgRating(RatedBy=@peers)
  ?@peers=$root/Employees/$filter(Department eq @dept)
  &@dept=$root/Employees('A1245')/Department
~~~

Reviewer: > Ok, first nit: we don't specify that `$root` introduces a new context for `$it`.
> 
> Second nit: if we would specify that, then `Department` would be the same as `$it/Department` because the argument of `/$filter(...)` is evaluated in the context of the prepended path `$root/Employees`.

You are right, I withdraw my proposal. Take the more complicated example, or
```
http://host/service/Employees('A1245')/self.AvgRating(RatedBy=@peers)
  ?@peers=$root/Employees/$filter(Department eq 'D1')
```

> Example ##ex: function call returning the average rating of a given employee by their peers (employees in the same department)
> ```
> http://host/service/Employees('A1245')/self.AvgRating(RatedBy=@peers)?@peers=$root/Employees/$filter(Department eq $it/Department)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example ##ex: function call returning the average rating of a given employee by their peers (employees in department D1)
```
```suggestion
http://host/service/Employees('A1245')/self.AvgRating(RatedBy=@peers)
?@peers=$root/Employees/$filter(Department eq 'D1')
```
